---
title:  "Writeup: Solving Stack 5"
date:   2019-03-18 10:00:00
categories: writeup
author: Ethan Schutzman
layout: post
---

The goal for stack 5 like all of the other stack problems is to exploit the buffer that is being written to the stack in order to change some value or execute arbitrary shell code that completes a desired action.  The difference between Stack 4 and Stack 5 is the inclusion of checking what the return value on the stack is.

```
  ret = __builtin_return_address(0);

  if((ret & 0xff000000) == 0xff000000) {
      printf("bzzzt (%p)\n", ret);
      _exit(1);
  }

```
This code is the problem, the stack exists withing some subset of the 0xff000000 memory spaces so we cannot simply smash the stack and overwrite the return address with somewhere we have stored shell code like an environment varaible or even somewhere else on the stack.  

Enter Return Oriented Programming (ROP).  The basic idea behind ROP is to jump to places in the code that are constructed in a way that will effectively execute desired shell code.  


There are two basic approaches to ROP, the first is searching for gadgets that already exist in your code using tools like Ropper or the ropgadget functionality in PEDA

This can be a time consuming process and unless you are intimately familar with the tool you are using, finding gadgets can be extremely time consuming.  

But what if there was an easier way?


What if we could find a way to bypass the return check?


Let's assume for a minute that we can craft a gadget that will allow us to jump into some predefined location, if that were true we can write shellcode to pop a new shell and simply read the contents of flag.txt



### Returning in place


Below is a disassembly of the getpath function that we are trying to exploit.

```
gdb-peda$ disas getpath
Dump of assembler code for function getpath:
   0x080484cb <+0>: push   ebp
   0x080484cc <+1>: mov    ebp,esp
   0x080484ce <+3>: sub    esp,0x84
   0x080484d4 <+9>: push   0x80485d0
   0x080484d9 <+14>:  call   0x8048370 <printf@plt>
   0x080484de <+19>:  add    esp,0x4
   0x080484e1 <+22>:  mov    eax,ds:0x804a028
   0x080484e6 <+27>:  push   eax
   0x080484e7 <+28>:  call   0x8048380 <fflush@plt>
   0x080484ec <+33>:  add    esp,0x4
   0x080484ef <+36>:  lea    eax,[ebp-0x44]
   0x080484f2 <+39>:  push   eax
   0x080484f3 <+40>:  call   0x8048390 <gets@plt>
   0x080484f8 <+45>:  add    esp,0x4
   0x080484fb <+48>:  mov    eax,DWORD PTR [ebp+0x4]
   0x080484fe <+51>:  mov    DWORD PTR [ebp-0x4],eax
   0x08048501 <+54>:  mov    eax,DWORD PTR [ebp-0x4]
   0x08048504 <+57>:  and    eax,0xff000000
   0x08048509 <+62>:  cmp    eax,0xff000000
   0x0804850e <+67>:  jne    0x8048527 <getpath+92>
   0x08048510 <+69>:  push   DWORD PTR [ebp-0x4]
   0x08048513 <+72>:  push   0x80485e4
   0x08048518 <+77>:  call   0x8048370 <printf@plt>
   0x0804851d <+82>:  add    esp,0x8
   0x08048520 <+85>:  push   0x1
   0x08048522 <+87>:  call   0x80483a0 <_exit@plt>
   0x08048527 <+92>:  lea    eax,[ebp-0x44]
   0x0804852a <+95>:  push   eax
   0x0804852b <+96>:  push   0x80485f0
   0x08048530 <+101>: call   0x8048370 <printf@plt>
   0x08048535 <+106>: add    esp,0x8
   0x08048538 <+109>: nop
   0x08048539 <+110>: leave
   0x0804853a <+111>: ret
End of assembler dump.

```


At first glance there is nothing simple to exploit, the lines we have to bypass are +62 and +67.  We need to make sure that the value of eax, our return address, does not start with 0xff000000. 

The return instruction in this case is our best friend, because in a 32 bit binary the return instruction simply pops the first value off the stack and jumps to that address.  The code is moving the return address returned by we can find the return address on the stack in the standard execution of the program by examining the stack in gdb.

The return instruction for the code in its normal flow of execution will return to the memory address of main() that called the getpath function. If we can find where on the stack that return address is when gets is called we can overflow the buffer to do something other than just returning to main.

The process of finding the return address is fairly straigtforward.  Try writing larger numbers of 'A's to the program in gdb until you get a segfault that is trying to return to 0x41414141.  That number of 'A's -4 is the size of the buffer you need to overwrite.  

The question then becomes what to do in order to alter the flow of the program.  What if we just return to the same spot we are in? In this case what if we write the correct buffer and then put the address of the ret instruction in getpath?  This means that we will execute the code as normal, bypassing the check of the return address because the supplied address does not begin with 0xff000000.  

Once we have the return to the ret instruction we have successfully overwritten control flow of the program.  We can then jump anywhere in memory because the ret instruction just pops the next value off the stack and jumps there as mentioned previously.

Now we can try jumping to an environment variable that we crafted with shellcode, but there is a problem.  The stack is writable, but not executable.  Meaning we can write something in the stack or in an environment variable, but the code will not execute it.  We need a different solution.


### The system function

What if instead of shellcode we leverage code that already exists in the binary to do what we want, one such solution could be using the system call with the argument '/bin/sh'.  

If we can call system and formulate the arguments correctly we will have a new shell that can read the flag.txt file we want.  In 32 bit binaries the convention for calling a function is to load it onto the stack with the required arguments following.  This is perfect because we have control of the stack.  If we can formulate our stack to look the way system will expect we can execute that and have control.

System looks on the stack for 2 arguments, an address to return to and a string with the location of a program to call.  Since we have control of the stack we can make this happen fairly easily. A clean way to run this exploit is to give the 4 bytes of information that system will return to as the address of the exit function so the program exits normally.

So our final exploit string will be:

  The number of 'A's we need to get to 4 bytes before the return address, for example we will say 32
  The address of the return instruction in getpath
  The address of system in the binary
  The address of exit in the binary
  The address of /bin/sh in the binary

  which results in an exploit string like

  ```
    python -c "print 'A'*32 + '&ret_in_getpath' + '&system' + '&exit' + '&/bin/sh'"
  ```







